So the next exercise, and
this is probably one of the most
substantial exercises of this workshop.
We have a flexible pie chart,
it's set through a single div element
with a bunch of custom properties.
Let's open this in a separate code,
I wanna just show you, how this works,
like what the finished product looks like.
It supports up to five slices, and
you could set their percentages
with custom properties.
And it can be set in the HTML or
it can be set in the CSS the custom
properties they can be
set however you want.
You can set the colors optionally, but
there are also default colors
if you don't wanna do that.
So now we've set color three to
sky blue we could just as easily
set color one to sky blue.
And notice that any colors we haven't set,
are just automatically set to something.
Let's make this a little bit bigger,
And we can set the size.
So this is how it's used,
Now let's go back to the starting point,
and let's open this in a new tab you
should actually have this slide.
So you should be able to open the code pen
in a separate tab, so how does this work?
You might be thinking what is
a conic gradient doing here?
What the hell,
how is this making a pie chart?
Let's go to a simpler conic gradient, so I
could walk you through how this is drawn.
So right now we have two colors,
Let's remove this color stop as well.
And this is the kind of conic gradient
you know and are familiar with,
and right now this is
a gradient from red to gray.
So, let's give our two colors,
Some color stock positions.
And let's bring them
closer together slowly,
And, we're bringing them closer together.
And you see that now as I
bring them closer together,
we get more areas of solid color,
and less area of an actual gradient.
Now 40% of the gradient is actually
just red, another 40% here is just gray.
And then we only have like 20%
that is an actual gradient, and
we can eliminate that completely.
We can bring the gray exactly at 40%, and
now we get a very very basic pie chart.
And in fact, these two values
don't actually need to match.
As long as the position of the second
color stop is either the same,
or smaller than the previous color stop,
it just adapts,
that's part of the typical gradient
fix up that the browser does.
So it doesn't actually have
to be 40% it can be 30%,
it can be 20%, or it can just be 0.
And I tend to use 0s there,
because then I can change this number,
without having to change anything else, so
I can just change the number in one place.
And now let's add another color stop,
And let's make it 40%.
And notice that now,
we still get a gradient between these two.
So what we actually need to do if
we want to have multiple slices,
Is we need to insert
another color stop for
this orange that is at 20%,
or as I said earlier 0.
And actually modern browsers allow us
to combine these, when you have two
consecutive color stops with two different
positions, you can actually combine them.
So this allows you to eliminate
a little bit of repetition as well,
Do notice something gradient color
stops are specified absolutely.
They are not relative to the previous
color stop, so the orange ends at 40%
of the gradient circle, not 40%
after the red color stop had ended.
So to actually create a slice that shows
40%, we would need to specify 60% here.
So, in other words it would be
the position of the previous color stop,
plus the percentage we
actually want to display,
let's see if that was
10% it would be this.
Notice how the automatic colors I'm
specifying here are equidistant in
terms of HSL, they just have a hue
that increases by 20% each time.
It's not ideal because HSL is
not a great system for that, but
it gives us something.
The third one would actually be
the position of the previous
color stop plus whatever percentage
we want to display there.
So the exercise now is to actually
utilize these value1, value2,
value3 variables, and so on.
To make these slices not be hard coded but
actually customizable cuz the hard
coded pie chart's not that useful.
We don't wanna be setting gradient every
time we wanna change the values of this
pie chart, we wanna be able to just
write some HTML and set some properties.
And there it is, boom, we have a pie chart
with whatever colors and values we want.
So, let's break and
take some time to do that, and
if you do that really fast,
you could also explore how you
could use Sass to reduce whatever
repetition you have in your CSS.